Add Pinterest case study (#664)
pingcap/blog: how-pinterest-reduced-costs-and-improved-data-consistency-with-newsql-database.md

In recent years, we used the HBase ecosystem to serve our critical online applications. But this **infrastructure was complex**. It had **limited functionalities** and brought **high maintenance and infrastructure costs**. We looked for a new storage solution that supports **distributed transactions** and **SQL compatibility**.

After we compared YugaByteDB, CockroachDB, and [TiDB](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable), an open-source scale-out database, we chose TiDB because it best met our requirements for stability and performance. TiDB helps us **reduce system complexity and infrastructure cost and achieve stronger consistency**.

In this article, I'll describe:

* [The storage evolution at Pinterest](#evolution-of-pinterest-online-storage)
* [Our HBase ecosystem](#hbase-at-pinterest)
* [Our exploration of distributed SQL](#in-search-of-new-storage)
* [TiDB's challenges and opportunities](#tidb-challenges-and-opportunities)

## Evolution of Pinterest online storage

* In 2012, we introduced sharded MySQL into Pinterest's tech stack. We used it to store the core data models including pins, boards, and users.

> * In 2013, we introduced HBase as Pinterest’s first NoSQL database system. Since then, HBase has been very popular, and it has been serving many of our critical services. Based on HBase, we’ve built a columnar data store, a graph service, and a number of other applications.

Author: ```suggestion
* In 2013, we introduced HBase as Pinterest's first NoSQL database system. Since then, HBase has been very popular, and it has been serving many of our critical services. Based on HBase, we’ve built a columnar data store, a graph service, and a number of other applications.
```

> * In 2013, we introduced HBase as Pinterest's first NoSQL database system. Since then, HBase has been very popular, and it has been serving many of our critical services. Based on HBase, we’ve built a columnar data store, a graph service, and a number of other applications.

Author: ```suggestion
* In 2013, we introduced HBase as Pinterest's first NoSQL database system. Since then, HBase has been very popular, and it has been serving many of our critical services. Based on HBase, we've built a columnar data store, a graph service, and a number of other applications.
```

* In 2015, we introduced RocksDB as a high performance C++ based storage engine. It powers our key-value (KV) store and machine learning serving applications. 
* In 2017, customers wanted us to add more features to our NoSQL databases—for example, distributed transactions. NoSQL users asked for secondary indexing. We built a number of middle layer systems to meet these requests.

> * In 2021, we’re again seeing many use cases that require a sweet spot between SQL and NoSQL. Users want NoSQL kind of scalability but they also want to enjoy SQL-like features. This leads us to think: will a distributed SQL database be a promising technology for our next-generation storage service?

Author: ```suggestion
* In 2021, we're again seeing many use cases that require a sweet spot between SQL and NoSQL. Users want NoSQL kind of scalability but they also want to enjoy SQL-like features. This leads us to think: will a distributed SQL database be a promising technology for our next-generation storage service?
```

### Top customer pain points with our HBase system

Our customers also had pain points with our existing HBase system.

#### Pain points with Zen 

Zen is our in-house graph service that provides a graph data model. Essentially, users can do CRUD operations with a data model of nodes and edges. They can define customized indexes like unique, non-unique, edge query, or local indexes.

Zen had two major pain points:

* **Data inconsistencies**

    Because HBase did not provide cross-table or cross-row transactions, inconsistent data introduced a lot of problems. Our customers were confused, and they had to do more coding to ensure consistent data.

* **Limited query support**

    Because HBase had limited functionalities, complicated queries like query joints would be hard to run.

#### Pain points with Ixia

Ixia is our in-house index data store. It is built on top of HBase + Muse (our in-house index engine). We use CDC for asynchronous indexing. Source of truth data is written to HBase, and we build indexes asynchronously in the search engine.

> Ixia’s major pain points were:

Author: ```suggestion
Ixia's major pain points were:
```

* **Occasional index failures and inconsistencies**. This frustrated customers, and we spent many hours helping them debug inconsistency-related issues.
* **Problem diagnosis could be time-consuming** due to system complexity.

As a result, we looked for new storage solutions that can gracefully handle those situations for us. 

## In search of new storage

> Currently, we have a gap in our storage solutions. We’re missing:

Author: ```suggestion
Currently, we have a gap in our storage solutions. We're missing:
```

* **SQL compatibility** so that we can execute expressive queries and provide our users with a seamless experience.

We thought of something like Google Spanner. It inspired us to explore open-source distributed SQL systems.

### Exploration of distributed SQL

We evaluated about 15 technologies including in-house systems, open-source technologies, and cloud solutions.

There were many dimensions that we considered, including operational load, migration cost,

programming language, community support, and cost efficiency. Open-source distributed SQL systems stood out. In the last round of our search, we mainly focused on three: YugaByteDB, CockroachDB, and [TiDB](https://pingcap.com/download). **We chose TiDB because it best met our requirements for stability and performance.**

### What is TiDB?

TiDB is an open-source, distributed SQL database that supports Hybrid Transactional and Analytical Processing (HTAP) workloads. It is MySQL compatible and features horizontal scalability, strong consistency, and high availability. You can learn more about TiDB's architecture [here](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-architecture).

### Evaluation with TiDB

> We did a dark traffic evaluation with Pinterest production traffic. We used Ixia as the target system. It’s our near real-time indexing system on HBase, as shown in the following figure:

Author: ```suggestion
We did a dark traffic evaluation with Pinterest production traffic. We used Ixia as the target system. It's our near real-time indexing system on HBase, as shown in the following figure:
```

![Dark traffic evaluation](media/dark-traffic-evaluation.jpg)
<div class="caption-center"> Dark traffic evaluation </div>

In this figure:

> * The graph on the left shows Ixia’s architecture. As you can see, it’s pretty complicated. It has HBase and a CDC pipeline. It has Ixia and a thrift server. It also uses Memcache and a search engine.

Author: ```suggestion
* The graph on the left shows Ixia's architecture. As you can see, it's pretty complicated. It has HBase and a CDC pipeline. It has Ixia and a thrift server. It also uses Memcache and a search engine.
```

* On the right side is our dark traffic application built on top of TiDB.

In contrast, the TiDB architecture is much simpler.

TiDB has given us:

* **Greatly reduced system complexity and stronger consistency**, because TiDB provides distributed transactions
* **Reduced** **infrastructure cost**, because the number of components is reduced
* **Comparable performance—and sometimes even better performance**—for the same type of queries

> This is the result of just one of our use cases. We evaluated other use cases, and, in general, we are satisfied with TiDB’s performance and reliability.

Author: ```suggestion
This is the result of just one of our use cases. We evaluated other use cases, and, in general, we are satisfied with TiDB's performance and reliability.
```

## TiDB challenges and opportunities

> We really appreciate the continuous support from the TiDB community and [PingCAP](https://pingcap.com/). As we continue our collaboration, we’re thinking about new challenges and how and where we can make TiDB even more useful and powerful for companies like Pinterest. For example:

Author: ```suggestion
We really appreciate the continuous support from the TiDB community and [PingCAP](https://pingcap.com/). As we continue our collaboration, we're thinking about new challenges and how and where we can make TiDB even more useful and powerful for companies like Pinterest. For example:
```

> * TiDB has gained a lot of community popularity, and it’s still maturing. We are looking forward to more product maturity and more functionalities over time.

Author: ```suggestion
* TiDB has gained a lot of community popularity, and it's still maturing. We are looking forward to more product maturity and more functionalities over time.
```

* We also want to see online recovery when we have a quorum loss.
* As Pinterest plans to go beyond the USA, another major focus for us is multi-region deployment.
* We also would like to see a good solution for fast data ingestion for large-scale data on the order of hundreds of terabytes.
* Because we have a very big ecosystem on HBase, how do we achieve zero downtime migration from HBase to TiDB also remains an open question.

> If you'd like to learn more about our experience with TiDB, or if you have any questions, you can join the [TiDB community on Slack](https://slack.tidb.io/invite?team=tidb-community&channel=everyone&ref=pingcap-blog). If you’re interested, you could get started with TiDB [here](https://pingcap.com/download).

Author: ```suggestion
If you'd like to learn more about our experience with TiDB, or if you have any questions, you can join the [TiDB community on Slack](https://slack.tidb.io/invite?team=tidb-community&channel=everyone&ref=pingcap-blog). If you're interested, you could get started with TiDB [here](https://pingcap.com/download).
```
